A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
